In this video, we'll be using
the application Block06 as an example.
I'll show you how to display an image and
how to use a slider to let the user
tune the color of the displayed image.
Let's start a new Android project.
Name the application Block06.
Click Next.
Next.
Select an Empty Activity.
And finish.
I will start by setting up
the graphical user interface.
So I'm building a linear layout,
not a relative one, and
its orientation will be vertical.
I can get rid of this padding here and
we can also delete the text view.
Okay.
Now, in the first row
I'll place an image view.
The width of this image view will
match the width of the content.
So, wrap content.
As for the height I'll put
a zero because I want to use
a percentage of the screen
not fixed dimensions so
instead I need to put an Android weight.
And I want to occupy about 20% of
the screen so I'll put 2 here.
And the second ImageView will be larger.
Let's make it right now.
The second ImageView will match
the width of the screen,
the weight will be 0 dp because
here again we're going to mention,
we're going to set the weight.
Android weight, this time will be 8.
Okay, now in between the two
ImageViews I will set SeekBar.
It will match the parent, and
the height will wrap the content.
I can also specify
the maximum value that this
SeekBar will allow me to choose,
so Android Max.
Will be 255.
And we'll need to be able to refer
to this seekBar from the java code,
so let's add also an ID for it.
It'll be seekBar_tuner because we'll
use it to tune the color of our image.
So that's the first image view occupying
approximately 20% of the screen.
The SeekBar, and this space here is
reserved to display another image,
but we didn't specify which image yet,
so let's do that.
In the MainActivity.java I
first retrieve a reference to
this ImageView,
let's call it imageView_large.
And I will retrieve it the usual way,
using the findViewById method
R.id.imageviewlarge.
Okay, and now that I've got
a reference on the image,
I can define which picture I
want to be displayed in it,
using the setImageResource method,
setImageResource.
And here I give the ID for my resource.
It's R.drawable and drawing.
Okay.
And now what we need to do is to
associate some action with the SeekBar.
So, first let's retrieve
a reference to the SeekBar.
Let's call it tuner.
So that would be SeekBar findViewById
R.id.SeekBar_tuner, and
the listener which allows you
to get notified when the user
scrolls the SeekBar is
called onSeekBarChangeListener.
And let's create a new object for
that, okay.
And here you notice that you have
3 methods that you need to define.
This one is called when the user
starts touching the SeekBar, and
this one when the user stops touching it.
And that's where we want
to perform some action.
But you notice that here we
have no clue about the value
taken by the SeekBar when
the user is done touching it.
So that's the reason why we need
to use this method as well.
This one is called,
each time the value changes,
you can get this value by using
the progress parameter here.
So each time the value is changed,
we want to remember that in order to be
able to use the last picked value here.
So let's create an int variable here,
lastProgress, okay.
And here we can set a lastProgress
to the current progress.
And when this method is called,
we're going to use the value of last
progress to adjust the color of our image.
So in order to do that we
can apply on our image,
which is called imageView_Large,
we can apply a filter
using setColorFilter.
And here we can provide
a color using it's RGB value.
So alpha would be 255 and
then for
the red value I would put zero, for
the green value I would use the value
chosen by the user using the seek bar.
And for the blue value, let's do, for
instance the opposite on
this minus lastProgress.
Okay, now let's try that on the emulator.
While I move the cursor to the right or
left,
nothing happens except that the last
progress variable is changed.
And when I release the cursor, then the
onStopTrackingTouch method is called and
the color filter is
applied to the image.
In this video I've shown you
how to display an image.
First, you need to create an ImageView
in your graphical user interface.
Next, you need to place your
image file in the drawable folder
of your resource directory.
You must make sure that the file
name starts with a letter and
contains only letters, no capitals,
numbers underscore and dot.
After that, if you want to specify which
image file to associate with your image
view in the XML layout file, then you use
the source property of the ImageView,
and you use the @drawable keyword
to reach the image resource.
And if you want to do
that from your java code,
then in that case you use a setImageResource
method on your image view,
and you use R.drawable.the
name of the file.